I hope everyone is feeling really
caffeinated and excited to talk about
web security this morning thanks for
coming out so early my name is Emily
Schechter I'm the product manager for
the Chrome security team and today I'm
going to talk about HTTPS and I'm really
excited to talk to you about HTTPS this
year because this year we've reached a
turning point we're finally starting to
see a whole lot of HTTPS out there on
the web here's a graph of Chrome page
loads over HTTPS for two of our
platforms and you can see that recently
things have really taken off more than
three quarters of Chrome page loads on
windows are now HTTPS and Android is
showing a really strong trajectory as
well with more than half of page loads
over HTTPS so we're finally in an HTTPS
first web in early 2016 we published in
HTTP transparency report which shows the
HTTP status for the top 100 sites on the
web and we now see 60 of those top 100
sites supporting HTTPS and of those 56
are defaulting to HTTPS and this is so
exciting because HTTPS is out there
protecting your data so I'll remind you
of how it actually does this HTTPS
actually gives us three security
properties the first is identity when
you type HTTPS google.com into your
browser your browser receives a
certificate that proves the server is
the real google.com not some other
server who's pretending to be google.com
the second is confidentiality once your
browser knows that you're talking to the
real google.com with that certificate
proof
both the browser and the server have a
guarantee that only they can read the
data that's being passed between them
and not anyone else eavesdropping on the
network and finally integrity the
browser and the server have a guarantee
under HTTPS that when they send data
from one to the other the data they send
is what the other party receives so an
intermediary on the network can't modify
or tamper with the data that's being
said so these are three security
properties that we get from HTTPS and
without HTTPS things start to look
pretty scary without HTTPS you have
absolutely no idea what site you're
actually viewing and talking to without
HTTPS you can have absolutely no
expectation that the data you're sending
like your password or your credit card
for example hasn't been eavesdropped on
or stolen and without HTTPS you can have
absolutely no expectation that the site
you're viewing hasn't been modified in
some way like maybe ads or malware have
been injected by someone on the network
and this is important because the web
has always been a pretty powerful place
the content of the sites that we browse
through says a lot about our behavior
our identity and our intentions and
recently the web has become even more
powerful new API s allow sites to know
more information about us than they ever
have before and the more amazingly
awesome and powerful we make the web the
more important it is for us to not give
these superpowers to a bad actor
protecting your site with HTTPS is like
locking your front door before you leave
the house it's really just the bare
minimum in terms of responsibilities for
that great power HTTPS
gives us the guarantees we need to trust
using the web and this is why Chrome and
the web security community want to move
towards a web where HTTPS is everywhere
so HTTPS is important and what's great
is that we're seeing so much momentum as
the whole web ecosystem moves sort of
place where HTTPS is everywhere we're
seeing sites around the world across
different verticals and industries
migrating to HTTPS and we're seeing
different pieces of the HTTPS ecosystem
come together to make it really easy and
automated for new sites to be HTTPS by
default for free a vital piece of this
HTTPS ecosystem is the certificate
authority ecosystem so a certificate
authorities give sites for certificates
they need to use to make HTTPS
connection let's encrypt is one of those
certificate authorities it happens to be
a free and automated one and they've
published some really amazing metrics
that show how HTTPS is taking off at
scale across the web as of January let's
encrypt was supporting more than 20
million active certificates in total and
I just checked yesterday they tweeted
that they just passed 40 million secure
websites which is really pretty amazing
they've even issued more than a million
certificates in a single day a few times
so this is amazing progress towards
getting the whole web to be HTTPS
Everywhere and one of the ways that
let's encrypt has taken off is by
partnering with platform players and
website creation tools so one of these
platforms that has enabled massive HTTP
ecosystem change is WordPress com
so those not familiar with WordPress com
you can use a platform to create
beautiful websites and blogs for free or
enhance them with premium services or
add WordPress solutions for enterprise
is to give you a sense of scale
wordpress.com has to date secured over 1
million unique customer domains so I
talked to wordpress comm to get a sense
of their story and how they got there
so in mid-2014 WordPress com took their
first steps as part of an initiative
called reset the net and this involved
migrating all wordpress.com subdomains
to HTTPS so this is all sites without
custom domains as well as their
WordPress com admin traffic then in
January 2016 wordpress.com switched
their first 100,000 custom domains over
to HTTPS only and they actually did this
by working with let's encrypt so let's
encrypt gave wordpress.com an efficient
and automated way to provide
certificates for hundreds of thousands
of sites at scale and by April of last
year wordpress.com had moved traffic for
all of their customer domains on both
wordpress.com and on custom domains to
HTTPS and they make it really easy it's
not often it's on by default and it's
not a paid premium for free and there's
no configuration or intervention
required at all so scale support from
platforms like this and from all around
the web ecosystem has helped us get this
amazing HTTPS first web where most of
the top sites on the web are supporting
and defaulting to HTTPS but we weren't
always here so this is not too long ago
back when we first published this HTTP
transparency report in early 2016
really not very many of those top 100
sites were supporting HTTPS and of those
not too many had HTTPS by default so we
didn't really know if HTTPS was going to
take off everywhere and this was because
there used to be some pretty thing
sniff acun challenges to migrate to
https when you used to think about
migrating to https maybe you used to
think that it was going to be expensive
or it was going to hurt the performance
of your site or it was going to be a lot
of maintenance and a lot of these
hurdles really have gotten much easier
in recent years because people all over
the web Kieko system have really cared
about getting to a future where HTTPS is
everywhere but even with these
improvements HTTP migrations do takes
careful planning they take time and they
take coordination so for the rest of
this talk we'll go over three case
studies from sites who have recently
migrated to hear firsthand what
challenges they did come across and what
they learned during their HTTPS journey
and I'll finish by talking about some
upcoming changes in chrome and what
these changes might mean for those
remaining HTTP sites so we'll start
first with CNET
CNET is a site that publishes tech
product reviews news videos and more so
to hear first-hand about their HTTP
experience please welcome the vice
president of engineering and technology
at C net John Sherwood
[Applause]
Thank You Emily hi everyone thanks again
for coming out so early on a Friday
especially after the concert last night
I'd always dreamed of performing on
stage at the shoreline I didn't think it
would be in a parking lot in a tent but
I'll take it
just give you a little context first of
all CNET is the world leader tech in
tech media brand with 10 to millions of
people coming to us every month to
consume our tech news our product
reviews are how to's and videos on
multiple platforms we were founded in
1994 which may mean we're older than
some of you here and that also means we
have a very long tail of content that we
have to deal with CBS acquired
CNET in 2008 to form CBS Interactive
nearly 300 million people come to our
properties every month which makes us
the seventh largest digital media
property and for some context the top
five include Google Amazon Facebook
Microsoft and Yahoo so we're in pretty
good company most recently we just won
two webby awards for best consumer
electronics website as well as the
people Choice Awards we're very proud of
those so today I'm going to talk to you
about our path to HTTPS I'll highlight
some of the challenges we face and how
we resolve them as well as some key
steps we took for our rollout and how we
mitigated the risks and finally I'll
cover some of the results of our
presence of our transition I'm going to
warn you that this timeline may look
rather long and a couple of things we
did have some of the challenges that
Emily mentioned as well as we took a
very conservative approach because we
wanted to protect our business so for
now we'll start back into for 2014 so of
course we've been using HTTPS to provide
a safe and secure environment for our
users when their personal data was
involved for things like login and
registration
however we discovered that secure
iframes in a non secure environment were
vulnerable to attack and this meant we
had to
some of our user experience that didn't
make our product team very happy we also
had let's see and then in late 2014
Google announced that htps would become
part of the ranking signal and as
intended we were incentive to take
advantage of that another driving factor
was we wanted to take advantage of the
performance improvements that HTTP 2
could give us such as multiplexing or
single connection there were additional
capabilities so HTTP would unlock such
as geolocation and we also wanted to
build a progressive web app and this
would require a lot of service workers
to allow for push notifications or
offline mode so we were very excited and
we wanted to start taking a look at how
we could move to HPS and unfortunately
we discovered there were some big
challenges so first off probably the
biggest challenge for us was the cost of
serving secure content through our CDN
it was going to be extremely expensive
so we were going to have to renegotiate
that contract which we did in late 2015
we would have to work with a lot of our
ad clients and providers and third
parties to give us safe and secure tags
this required a lot of outreach and
education we actually had to tell some
people no you can't just put an S at the
end we also had to update our entire
video stacks we had the same CDN cost
and AD tech issues but we also had to
make some significant changes in our
delivery infrastructure and then of
course there were the unknowns we'd
heard horror stories of sites had moved
over to HP s and had a big fat or bad
impact on their SEO performance we were
able to meet with a few of them and talk
about best practices what has gone well
what has gone wrong with their
migrations for example one of the sites
told us that they had turned on their
301 redirects but they had not unblocked
they're secure robots file so search
engines were following the redirects and
then not able to crawl their secure site
so and it took them a few hours to
discover that and Google's also
published a lot of best practices which
we followed to a tee and helped us a lot
we had also heard ad TPMS are going to
be much lower and unfortunately this was
not really something we could find out
from other people we just heard rumors
so we had to test that one ourselves
and then finally there's performance we
were concerned of the impact at HTTP was
going to have on every single request of
course there are techniques you can use
with HTTP - as Emily mentioned and in
fact last year at Google i/o there was
an excellent talk called myth busting
HTTPS and it covers a lot of these so by
q4 of 2015 we resolved most of these
challenges and we were ready to get
serious about our migration so to
mitigate the risks we knew we had to
take a phase approach first off we
formed a small team and it was led by
two rockstar engineers who are here
tyler bat liner and jonathan miller so
you should hit them up afterwards if you
want to get the gory details about what
actually happened kick things off we
move to our static assets and it allowed
us to immediately take advantage of HTC
- we moved our images our CSS our
JavaScript we then began the process of
moving all the third-party dependencies
so all of the ads third-party tracking
and we implemented a content security
policy we use a great free tool called
report - URI I owe and this gave us
visibility into all the sub requests
that were being made that were not
secured and then our next phase with an
a/b test and this wasn't going to be
available to search engines but this
would allow us to expose a segment of
our users to a secure site and we can
measure our core KPIs
as well as the impact on performance
and then by August we'd finally address
all the dependencies and we felt good
about the av-test data and we were ready
to move forward with a public launch of
our site we did it in seven phases over
the course of about two months which was
about once every two weeks and we
started with CNET Roadshow which is our
site for car owners and enthusiasts so
for each phase we would start by
rewriting all of the links eight reps
Canonical's
we had to make changes in our web apps
and in our data we did this everywhere
except for one exception we ensured we
had both sitemaps for that section for
both HTTP and HTTPS and here's whether
one exception is our HTTP sitemap
included HTTP references that way when
we turned on our 301 redirects the
Googlebot could find and follow those
links and find our redirects and index
us then we updated our robots files to
include those sitemaps one thing to note
our secure robots file had already been
crawled and cached by Google so we had
to submit it along with our sitemaps to
the Google search console to get it to
update and then finally we turned on 301
redirects and we launched and started
monitoring all our core KPIs and so we
monitored our site metrics all of the
search engine refers 301 redirect levels
and our ads performance and we were
happy to see that we didn't see any
negative impact this here shows roadshow
when we launched in the middle here is
August when we launched and as you can
see there was no negative impact to our
search refers this is an expanded view
across our entire rollout once again
there was no negative impact to our
search engine refers and this looks at
our ads CPM once again no negative
impact across the entire rollout
and finally performance this is our rum
data four page load and with ACP two we
were able to mitigate any impacts there
and this was solid so in late October
just a couple weeks after we went fully
live we were able to launch our first
progressive web app see net tech today
which is our progressive version of our
popular iOS app which gives you the 10
most recent important text stories of
the day and so once the foundation was
laid all the sites here on the Left have
now gone to HTTPS and the sites on the
right are in progress so we've seen
great results and I would encourage you
if you're thinking about moving now it's
the time to do it go ahead and with that
I'll turn it back over to Emily thank
you thanks so much John those are some
really cool graphs to see so as we just
heard from C net HTTP migrations can
actually be quite complicated and this
really depends on how complex your site
is HTTP migrations can require careful
planning to make sure that the migration
goes smoothly so I'll use the second
case study to highlight how project
management and migration planning can
help ensure a smooth transition Rakuten
is one of the world's leading Internet
services companies offering a wide
variety of services for consumers and
businesses with a focus on e-commerce
finance and digital content Rakatan is
headquartered in Tokyo and it operates
throughout Asia Europe and America and
you may know some of these Rakatan
companies their e-commerce platform
Rakatan a Chiba is the largest
e-commerce site in Japan
and besides ecommerce Rakatan services
cost many other verticals like payments
banking insurance sports media and
communication
across three continents so you might
imagine that moving a huge global
ecosystem like rock Orton all over to
HTTPS might not be that easy
so rakatans started looking into their
HTTPS migration and they realized that
the task was going to be massive and
complicated they realized that they
wanted to move over 250 websites and 350
non website services and they found that
there were over 3,000 inter dependencies
between these for example multiple
websites might be relying on the same ad
network or API and because tens of
thousands of merchants rely on rakatans
online marketplace any HTTP issue could
have damaged the business of these
merchants so a brave group of program
managers at Rakatan formed a program
approach to steer the migration across
the entire Wroxton ecosystem so Rakatan
divided their ecosystem into a number of
smaller project teams and in each group
a lead was assigned to coordinate the
HTTP migration for that group and then
each of these leads reported into the
program management office who then
reported to a steering committee of
Rakatan execs and this centralized
program management office is the key
here because they provided a ton of
centralized support that provided a
bunch of different benefits that allowed
Rakatan to smoothly migrate this complex
ecosystem over to HTTPS the centralized
program management office dealt with
some key migration pieces for the whole
company so that technical teams could
focus on their own areas of
responsibility here are some of the
pieces that were centralized by the
program management office information
sharing of best practices the office
provided a tool for engineering teams
across the globe to ask similar
questions and get responses provided
information sharing work
jobs and newsletters there were
centralized dashboards so Robertson had
a single source of data and reporting to
quickly escalate any real issue within
the project team and there was
centralized risk management so the
program management committee made sure
that each of those project teams knew
what specifically to look out for and
what concern was actually just an HTTP
myth the program structure specifically
helps Robertson to manage cross company
dependencies so they mapped out which
services had the most dependencies and
services that multiple sites relied on
became a high priority migration targets
this has helped put Rakatan on the past
successful HTTPS migration for those 250
websites and more than 350 non website
services so by March their services were
about 80 percent migrated to HTTPS and
they're still on great track to finish
their migration by their target dates so
Rakatan was able to use effective
project management to avoid migration
risk for a really complex ecosystem
migration and a quick shout-out to will
from Robertson he's actually the program
manager who led this effort and he's
here today and we'll be around after the
talk to answer any questions about their
migration so taking a step back from
HTTPS we're all here at Google i/o it's
incredibly early on a Friday morning you
spent the last two days hearing a lot
about progressive web app and you've
been hearing about some amazing
capabilities that your site can have
with progressive web up some of these
capabilities you've probably already
learned about from the many talks
already in the past few days
service workers can give your site a
huge host of new capabilities like the
ability to work offline and huge
performance improvements Add to Home
screen let your site feel more like an
app with access from your launching
screen
push notifications keep users coming
back and engage and some new performance
improvements like HTTP 2 and brought Li
compression can really improve site
performance especially for those users
with poor connection quality and you may
have heard that all of these
capabilities actually require HTTPS as a
baseline in order for you to unlock them
so the next case study that I'll talk
about was motivated to move to HTTPS to
create a progressive web app with these
new capabilities and they saw firsthand
how HTTPS enabled them to do even more
with their sites
this site is trivago it's a glowtel host
global hotel search platform focusing on
reshaping the way travellers search for
and compare hotels and as I mentioned
trivago was specifically motivated to
move to HTTPS by the set of capabilities
that chrome and other browsers require
ACPs in order to unlock and they were
able to create a really amazing set of
experiences with these capabilities so
here's what some of these capabilities
look like four trivago with Add to Home
screen a dialog allows users to access
the apps from their homescreen trivago
has new offline awareness helps users
even when there's no connection this is
a huge improvement from losing
frustrated users who lost their
connection while on the site and they
mentioned actually about 2% of their
users will lose a connection one time
while they're on the site so instead you
can now play this fun maze game kind of
reminds me of the Chrome offline Dino
game and they can also create
functionality like helping people to
retrieve Hotel information when they're
offline traveling and trivago will also
roll out push notifications so that
users can be notified when the price for
a certain hotel drops significantly
they also rolled out some amazing
performance improvements with service
workers and http2
you've probably heard a little bit about
service workers already today http/2 if
you haven't heard of it it's the next
version of HTTP which is now supported
in many browsers including Chrome and
Firefox and using HTTP 2 you can do
things like multiplexing and server
pushing which optimize performance for
HTTP requests especially for your users
who have the worst and the slowest
connection so I'll give you a quick PM
explain about how cool HTTP 2 is so
Chrome usually speaks of web servers
using HTTP 1 1 so Chrome will open a
communication channel send a request to
the server and wait for a response back
and with HTTP 1 1 it will actually open
up to 6 of these communication channels
so now with h2 there's actually only one
communication line using what's called
streams to transfer data so the data
will be broken down and sent back in
chunks according to the priority of the
request this is called multiplexing and
besides multiplexing the server will
also assume that Chrome will want a few
other files like CSS and JavaScript and
this is called server pushing where they
send it automatically and all of this
together makes h2 way more efficient
than hgp 1 1 remember this is only
available over HTTP you might wonder why
is this only available over HTTP there's
actually a really practical reason for
this and that's compatibility there's
some intermediaries and things like
proxies that are likely to get kind of
confused or in some cases actually break
things when they see HTTP 2 traffic
because it looks so different from HTTP
1 traffic so we need the integrity
guarantees of HTTPS to be able to
support HTTP 2 without breaking things
so trivago rolled out a CPS and h2 and
here is what they found with their HTTPS
migration they saw no major performance
Beks for their central markets of the UK
and Germany they did see some minor
impact on some HTTP connections but they
were able to win it back and more using
available optimization at the same time
that they migrated to HTTPS they added
some new dedicated HTTPS Terminator
nodes and they turned on another
performance optimization called keep
alive and in their locations that were
further geographically and tended to
have a little bit more latency like
Australia for example they found that
keep alive improved their site response
time by about 800 milliseconds and then
they started sending HTTP to requests at
the beginning of April just about a
month and a half ago and their data
already looks really great
their average number of connections drop
sharply because of that HTTP to
multiplexing where multiple assets are
sent over the same connection so here's
a graph of the average number of
connections to trivago CDN you can see
that on the day they turn on HTTP 2 the
number of connections is dropping
sharply trivago also shared that before
starting their migration they were
similarly concerned that it might affect
their SEO so they carefully measured
their SEO during the migration and what
they actually found was that HTTPS did
not negatively impact their organic
search impressions and clicks so here's
a nice graph of their search clicks
during the migration and you can see
that as a traffic trip sorry
switches over to HTTPS across their
platform there's even a positive impact
on SEO which they think might be partly
due to seasonal effects so trivago is
HTTP migration enabled them to create
amazing and fast experiences with their
web app so we just talked about three
cases from sites who recently migrated
to HTTPS and you've heard about the
drivers that cause these sites to want
to migrate to HTTPS so for the past
three years I've talked to a bunch of
sites about their HTTPS migrations
and when I ask them about what drives
them to migrate to HTTPS many of them
actually mentioned browser UI so in
chrome we indicate connection security
with an icon in the address bar and
we've actually changed this icon over
time to more clearly explain the risk of
non secure HTTP so this is what our icon
for all HTTP sites used to look like and
this was a problem because it did not
give users a warning did not communicate
the risks of using non secure HTTP we
would like to represent non secure HTTP
sites with this scary dangerous triangle
icon but if we were to introduce this
icon right away on all HTTP sites we
think it could actually cause harm when
users see warnings too many times it's
proven that they'll get what's called
warning fatigue where they stop paying
attention to warning so we don't want to
introduce warning fatigue plus we don't
want the Internet to seem like a scary
place we don't want people to be afraid
of using the web or to stop using the
web so we're on a mission to be honest
without inducing chaos and panic so we
have a plan to slowly introduce browser
UI so that we can balance exposure to
the warnings while gradually increasing
honesty about HTTP so in January of this
year we began showing warnings on HTTP
pages with password or credit card form
fields and we chosen to the first step
because there's limited user exposure to
HTTP password and credit card pages so
there's really low risk of warning
fatigue and also because it's
conceptually pretty understandable to
users that there might be some risks
involved with transmitting a password or
a credit card online and we did see
great impact from this change in Chrome
desktop we actually saw a 23% reduction
in the fraction of page navigation
settings
food password or credit card forms over
HTTP since we've launched these warnings
so we decided that we're ready to take
the next step so I'm happy to announce
that starting in October with chrome 62
chrome will show this not secure warning
in two additional situations first is
when users enter data on an HTTP page as
shown here the warning will expand when
you type into an HTTP page in addition
we also think that when you're browsing
the web in Chrome's incognito mode you
might want to know when your connection
isn't actually private to others on the
network for those that are not familiar
with Chrome incognito mode it's a Chrome
privacy feature that opens a new window
where Chrome won't save your browsing
history so others who might use your
device won't see that activity but it
doesn't change whether your connection
to those sites HTTP or HTTPS are private
to others on the network so in chrome 62
we'll show the not secure warning on all
HTV pages visited in incognito mode so
we hope that these gradual changes will
help users to understand the risks of
non secure HTTP and we also hope that
announcing the change ahead of time
gives sites that are still HTTP ample
time to migrate before users start
seeing the warning so we've talked their
cases from CNET from Rakatan and from
trivago who've shown real-world examples
of smooth HTTP HTTP migrations they've
shown how HGPS can help unlock amazing
capabilities to create awesome features
that delight users that help their
business and that help protect their
data and finally we've talked to some
upcoming changes in chrome that will
help users to understand the true lack
of security in HTTP connections and that
hopefully will help bring us even closer
to ubiquitous HTTPS
we're in an ACP s first world but we're
not all the way there yet so if any of
you work at a company with a website and
your site is still HTTP I encourage you
to go out there and start planning what
it means for your websites and migrate
to HTTPS if we continue working together
we can make the entire web secure by
default
[Music]